Add more technical and economical info to JLP and perpetuals guides (#479)
jup-ag/space-station: guides/8-perpetual-exchange/2-how-it-works.md

In the event of **manually closing a position**, the associated trigger orders will be automatically canceled and closed, providing a seamless experience when opening new future positions.

:::info
While `TP/SL` orders are set, keepers will monitor the mark price, when reaching the specified price level, TP/SL will close the whole position. More info on keepers [here](#keepers).
:::

### PnL

Profit and loss calculations directly corresponds to the size of your **position**. Here are two examples to illustrate this:

1. Long position example:
   * Position: 1,000 USD long on SOL
   * If SOL price increases by 10%: You profit 100 USD
   * If SOL price decreases by 10%: You lose 100 USD
2. Short position example:
   * Position: 1,000 USD short on SOL
   * If SOL price decreases by 10%: You profit 100 USD
   * If SOL price increases by 10%: You lose 100 USD

In both cases, the profit or loss is 10% of the **position size**, matching the percentage change in SOL's price.

:::info
This example demonstrates a simplified calculation of PnL without factoring in the fees associated with Jupiter Perps. More info on fees [here](#fees).
:::

## Managing Leverage

### Leverage

> To allow for leverage, traders borrow assets from the pool to create a larger position. To create a 2x long position SOL-USD, the other 1x SOL will be borrowed from the pool.

Reviewer: the borrow rate is calculate according to the size of position only, without taking collateral into consideration

:::

### Borrow Fee

On the Jupiter Perpetuals exchange, traders can open leveraged positions by borrowing assets from the liquidity pool.

Borrow fees serve two main purposes:

1. To compensate liquidity providers for the use of their assets.
2. To manage the risk associated with leveraged trading.

Unlike other perpetuals exchanges, the Jupiter Perpetuals exchange does not charge funding rates for open positions. Instead, traders pay borrow fees that compound hourly based on the borrowed amount for the leveraged position.

The borrow fees are reinvested back into the JLP pool to increase the pool's yield and available liquidity. It also acts as an incentive for the token mark price to align with it's market spot price.

The formula for the hourly borrow fee is:

`Hourly Borrow Fee = Tokens Borrowed/Tokens in the Pool * Hourly Borrow Rate * Position Size`

> * `Tokens Borrowed`: The amount of tokens borrowed from the pool for the leveraged position
> * `Total Tokens in Pool`: The amount of tokens deposited into the pool for the position's underlying token

> > * `Hourly Borrow Rate`: The base rate for the hourly borrow fees (**0.01%** at the time of writing)

Reviewer 2: good catch - added more info tooltips to emphasize that 0.008% is for SOL, ETH, BTC while USDC and USDT rate is still 0.01%

> > * `Hourly Borrow Rate`: The base rate for the hourly borrow fees (**0.01%** at the time of writing)

Author: Yep, I think that works fine, thanks @wowmiir !

| Initial Position Value | $1000 |
| --- | ----- |
| Initial Deposit | $500 |
| Borrowed Amount | $500 |
| Leverage | 2x |
| Initial SOL Price | $100 |
| Utilization Rate | 50% |
| Borrow Rate | 0.008% per hour |
| Position Opening Fee | `0.06% * $1000 = $0.6` |

The trader keeps this position open for 2 days, and the price of SOL appreciates by 10%.

| Final Position Value | $1100 |
| --- | ----- |
| Final SOL Price | $110 |
| Holding Period | 2 days (48 hours) |
| Position Closing Fee | `0.06% * $1100 = $0.66` |

The borrow fee accumulated throughout this period can be calculated as:

- `Hourly Borrow Fee = Tokens Borrowed/Tokens in the Pool * Borrow Rate * Position Size`
- `Total Borrow Fee = 50% * 0.008% * 1000 * 48 = $1.92 USD`

The trader's final profit can be calculated as:

- `Final Profit = Final Position Value - Initial Position Value - Borrow Fee - Opening Fee - Closing Fee`
- `$1100 - $1000 - $1.92 - $0.6 - $0.66 = $96.82`

The trader gets a final profit of **$96.82 USD** after this trade.

## Oracle

Jupiter Perps uses a new Oracle Network, co-designed by Jupiter and another key ecosystem player (to be announced at Breakpoint), and audited by Offside Labs.

> This oracle, known as Signal, is used as the mark price for opening and closing trades, calculating margin requirements, and triggering SL/TP orders and liquidations on the Jupiter platform.

Author: Chaos Labs has now changed the name to `Edge`: https://www.binance.com/en/square/post/2024-09-13-chaos-labs-launches-decentralized-oracle-protocol-edge-for-solana-ecosystem-13468079116865

Reviewer 2: I think the latest name is Dove - will confirm and push the latest change

| Latency | User makes a request, Keepers have to wait for the oracle before placing the trade. | User makes a trade, Keepers immediately process the trade with the oracle. |
| Chart | Discrepancy between trades placed and the chart. | Signal powers the trading view chart and all position requests, no discrepancy. |

### Pyth as a Fallback Oracle

Perp Keepers also utilize Pyth:

- As a reference price check (sanity check) against the Signal Oracle, ensuring that the deviation is not too big.
- As a fallback price if Signal’s prices are stale.

This way, Jupiter Perps benefits from the new signal oracle while still being able to rely on Pyth as a supporting oracle.

## Keepers

Jupiter Perpetual Exchange works based on a keeper model. A typical trader action involves a 2-step process:

1. **Trader** submits a request transaction onto the Solana chain.
2. **Keeper** monitors the request transaction and executes it as a separate transaction onto the Solana chain.

> Sometimes, if the oracle price is stale or the oracle price hits the trader slippage, the keeper will close the trader's request and return the SOL rent on the request and collateral (when opening a position) back to the trader. You will see this as a separate transaction on your wallet submitted by our keeper.

Author: ```suggestion
If the position request fails (e.g. if the oracle price is stale or the oracle price hits the trader slippage), the keeper will close the trader's request and return the SOL rent on the request and collateral (when opening a position) back to the trader. You will see this as a separate transaction on your wallet submitted by our keeper.
```
